docs(tutorial): update nextcloud instantapp (#2186)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/nextcloud-instantapp/index.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Getting Started with the NextCloud InstantApp
  description: This page shows how you can deploy a NextCloud instance in seconds.
content:
  h1: Getting Started with the NextCloud InstantApp
  paragraph: This page shows how you can deploy a NextCloud instance in seconds.
tags: apps compute cloud storage InstantApp NextCloud Instance
categories:
  - compute
dates:
  validation: 2023-09-25
  posted: 2018-08-16
---

> In this tutorial we show you how to can deploy your personal cloud storage with the [NextCloud](https://www.nextcloud.com) InstantApp in seconds. NextCloud allows you to create a self-hosted cloud storage to host files, folders, contacts, photo galleries, calendars and more on your Instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we show you how to deploy your personal cloud storage with the [NextCloud](https://www.nextcloud.com) InstantApp in seconds. NextCloud allows you to create a self-hosted cloud storage to host files, folders, contacts, photo galleries, calendars, and more on your Instance.
```

> Scaleway's NextCloud image is based on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS (Jammy Jellyfish), the NextCloud application, MariaDB as database engine and it uses database tuning according to [NextCloud's official recommendations](https://docs.nextcloud.com/server/27/admin_manual/configuration_database/linux_database_configuration.html#configuring-a-mysql-or-mariadb-database). By default, this image supports [routed IPs](/compute/instances/api-cli/using-routed-ips/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Scaleway's NextCloud image is based on Ubuntu 22.04 LTS (Jammy Jellyfish), the NextCloud application, MariaDB as the database engine, and it uses database tuning according to [NextCloud's official recommendations](https://docs.nextcloud.com/server/27/admin_manual/configuration_database/linux_database_configuration.html#configuring-a-mysql-or-mariadb-database). By default, this image supports [routed IPs](/compute/instances/api-cli/using-routed-ips/).
```

  - You have [configured your SSH key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key)
</Message>

> ## Creating the NextCloud Instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Creating a NextCloud Instance
```

1. Click **Instances** in the **Compute** section of the side menu. The Instance creation page displays.
2. Click **Create an Instance**. The Instance creation wizard displays.
3. Choose the Availability Zone for your Instance.
4. Select the Instance type you want to create.
5. Select the **NextCloud** image in the **InstantApps** tab.

>     <Lightbox src="scaleway-instantapp-nextcloud.webp" alt="" />

Reviewer 2: Maybe the image could be dropped completely, since the other InstantApp tutorials do not show them. This would save the burden of maintaining the screenshots whenever the Scaleway Console appearance or the InstantApp list changes.

Author: Agreed :)

6. Add storage volumes to your Instance.
7. Enter a name and optional tags for your Instance.
8. Click **Create Instance** to launch your NextCloud Instance.

<Message type="tip">
  For detailed information about Instance creation, refer to the [create an Instance](/compute/instances/how-to/create-an-instance/) documentation.
</Message>

## Configuring NextCloud

When the Instance is running, you can see the Instance's IP address in the server list on the control panel.

1. Copy the IP address and open an [SSH session](/compute/instances/how-to/create-an-instance) to find the database credentials required for NextCloud.

> 2. The MySQL user, password, and database name is shown in the MOTD message that displays upon your first connection to the server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The MySQL user, password, and database name are shown in the MOTD message that displays upon your first connection to the server:
```

    ```
    ################### NEXTCLOUD ###################
    Nextcloud version 27.0.2 is installed in /var/www/html/nextcloud.

    Getting started with: https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/tutorials/nextcloud-instantapp/

>     In order to configure your Nextcloud, it must be bound to a relational database first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Before configuring your Nextcloud, you must bind it to a relational database.
```

    A MySQL database is running locally. You can connect using the following credentials:
    Database user: nextcloud
    Database password: 07661dd3ec51560369c3dbb606b0e35c86da476a
    Database name: nextcloud_db

    You can also connect to any other external database supported by Nextcloud (see
    https://docs.nextcloud.com/server/27/admin_manual/configuration_database/linux_database_configuration.html).

>     Go to http://01e090cd-e0f4-4b5e-b035-5fda387535ed.pub.instances.scw.cloud/nextcloud, fill the form with your database information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Go to http://01e090cd-e0f4-4b5e-b035-5fda387535ed.pub.instances.scw.cloud/nextcloud, and fill in the form with your database information
```

    and your desired user.

    You can hide this message for the next connections by deleting the /etc/update-motd.d/70-nextcloud file.
    #################################################
    ```

> 3. Open a web browser and enter the NextCloud URL visible in the MOTD in the navigation bar of it. NextCloud's installation script displays.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Open a web browser and enter the NextCloud URL from the MOTD in the navigation bar. NextCloud's installation script displays.
```

4. Enter a username and password (of your choice) as well as the database credentials shown in the MOTD of your Instance. Leave the database host as `localhost`. Then click **Install**.
    <Lightbox src="scaleway-instantapp-nextcloud-install.webp" alt="" />
    <Message type="note">
      The installation takes a few seconds to complete.
    </Message>

## Log in to NextCloud

Once the installation completes, you are redirected to the login page. Enter the username and password you set previously and press **Enter** on your keyboard.

<Message type="tip">
  After completing the NextcCloud installation, your browser may navigate to an incorrect URL. A quick workaround is to click the "Back" button in the browser to access the NextCloud login page.
</Message>

You are now connected to your personal cloud storage and can start using it.

<Lightbox src="scaleway-instantapp-nextcloud-splash.webp" alt="" />

## Opening the mail ports to send emails

 <Message type="note">

>   In order to prevent spam, our infrastructure does not allow access to remote mail ports by default. However, since NextCloud requires the ability to send emails, you have to enable access to these ports. Your account needs to undergo a validation proces before you can enable the SMTP ports. [Learn more about identiy verification](/console/my-account/how-to/verify-identity).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  In order to prevent spam, our infrastructure does not allow access to remote mail ports by default. However, NextCloud requires the ability to send emails, so you must enable access to these ports. Your account needs to undergo a validation process before you can enable the SMTP ports. [Learn more about identity verification](/console/my-account/how-to/verify-identity).
```

</Message>

> 1. Click the **Security groups** tab in the Instances overview page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the **Security groups** tab on the Instances overview page.
```
